Add release notes for knative 0.17 (#2780)
knative/docs: blog/releases/announcing-knative-v0-17-release.md

---
title: "Announcing the Knative v0.17 release"

> linkTitle: "Version 0.17 release"

Reviewer: Since the first heading is "Announcing Knative v0.17 Release", I'd maybe remove the linkTitle here and just have:
`title: "Version 0.17 release"`

date: 2020-08-24

> description: "The Knative v0.17 release announcement"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Knative v0.17 release announcement"
```

type: "blog"
image: knative-eventing.png
---

## Announcing Knative v0.17 Release

As Knative maintains its predictable release cadence, it's time to cut another stable release across components. Be aware for the next release we are planning to make Kubernetes 1.17 the minimum version. Serving continues their journey with test and benchmark optimizations on the already v1 API version. For Eventing now ContainerSource and PingSource are available as v1beta1.

> Remember to check [the upgrade docs](https://knative.dev/docs/install/upgrade-installation/) for any upgrades concerns applicable to your current version before you upgrade to the new version v0.17

Reviewer: I'd modify this section to remove any additional "wordiness".
To me, sentences like "As Knative maintains its predictable release cadence, it's time to cut another stable release across components." are waffle - they don't add any real information and make the doc harder to read.

It's not clear to me from this paragraph whether 1.17 is the minimum version for 0.17 or the _next_ release, i.e. 0.18?

Again, the "Serving continues...." bit doesn't add any info IMHO.

Another minor nit - I'd take "the" out of [the upgrade docs] and instead:
"Check the [upgrade documentation](link)..."

Instead of "the new version v0.17" I'd just say "the latest version".

### [Serving v0.17.1](https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/tag/v0.17.1)

**InitialScale annotation to control the initial deployment size**
There is a new annotation that can be used to control the number of pods that are initially deployed when new Revisions are rolled out.

**net-contour and net-kourier have moved to Beta**

> In addition to net-istio, we now have three networking layers that we classify as (at least) Beta.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to net-istio, Knative now supports three other networking layers that are in Beta status.
```

Author: @abrennan89 
Thanks for the review, I will make the updates.

I'm taking these wordings from the original release notes from the individual components.
This came from the service [0.17](https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/tag/v0.17.2)
 
Should this enhancement something we should take back to the original release notes? @mattmoor @evankanderson

**Kubernetes minimum version has NOT changed**

> It remains **1.16**, but we may bump to 1.17 in the coming release depending on its availability for qualification testing (per our release principles).

Reviewer: We shouldn't document what may or may not change in the future. See https://developers.google.com/style/future

I think we should remove all mentions of this 1.17 unless there's somewhere that we previously stated the Kubernetes version will update with each Knative version (I assume we don't do this). Otherwise, no need IMHO to call out what _didn't_ change :woman_shrugging:

Author: I can remove, but I copy this verbatim from the Service [release notes](https://github.com/knative/serving/releases/tag/v0.17.2)

I guess it was more a was to give heads up that imminent changes are coming in near term releases.

> <details><summary>Autoscaling</summary>

Reviewer: These tags seem odd to me for markdown? What is this used for?

Reviewer 2: Its used on GitHub to create a section that can be collapsed (you can use HTML 5 in GitHub flavored MD).

Author: Like @rhuss indicated, this allows for better readability of so much text on the page, allows the user if they want to drill into the details of the pull requests they can click the twisty. while allowing web crawlers to still go thru all the content.

It looks like this 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1094878/91862967-96c66a00-ec3c-11ea-8518-4200b2bebc03.png)

> - Launched the initial scale with possibility of starting with 0 

Reviewer 3: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
- Launched the initial scale with possibility of starting with 0
```

- PingSource does not lose events anymore when being shutdown close to the minute ([#3831](https://github.com/knative/eventing/pull/3831), [@lionelvillard](https://github.com/lionelvillard)

</details>

<details><summary>Other Changes</summary>

- Add missing "leases" RBAC to controller and webhook to support leader election. ([#3562](https://github.com/knative/eventing/pull/3562), [@mattmoor](https://github.com/mattmoor)
- Control plane components now specify anti-affinity so that replicas will not be colocated. ([#3795](https://github.com/knative/eventing/pull/3795), [@mattmoor](https://github.com/mattmoor)
- The multi-tenant PingSource adapter consumes less resources. ([#3451](https://github.com/knative/eventing/pull/3451), [@lionelvillard](https://github.com/lionelvillard)
- Reconcile eventing.{Broker,Trigger} using v1 api shape. Operate on dependent resources (Subscriptions, etc.) using their v1 shapes. ([#3587](https://github.com/knative/eventing/pull/3587), [@vaikas](https://github.com/vaikas)
- When Trigger is reconciled, do not emit an event for it ([#3643](https://github.com/knative/eventing/pull/3643), [@vaikas](https://github.com/vaikas)

</details>

### Client

> TODO: check when is the kn cli 0.17 release cut

Reviewer: @rhuss @navidshaikh can you confirm?

Reviewer 2: Kn 0.17 has been released, the release notes can be found here: https://github.com/knative/client/releases/tag/v0.17.0

Author: Thanks @rhuss I saw that I will add.

### Operator

> TODO: check when is the operator 0.17 release cut

Reviewer: Any idea who can confirm this, @knative/knative-release-leads ?

Author: This is now released, I have being working with the WGs over Slack to coordinate.

Author: https://github.com/knative/operator/releases/tag/v0.17.0

### Learn more

> Knative is an open source project that anyone in the [community](https://knative.dev/community/) can use, improve, and enjoy. We'd love ❣ you to join us!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Knative is an open source project that anyone in the [community](https://knative.dev/community/) can use, improve, and enjoy. We'd love you to join us!
```

Reviewer: I'd remove symbols like this to improve readability.

Author: I will remove, I just copied the symbol from the website community docs.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1094878/91864563-549e2800-ec3e-11ea-8b09-a1d0f51ac23b.png)

- [Welcome to Knative](https://www.knative.dev/docs#welcome-to-knative)

> - [Getting started documentation](https://www.knative.dev/docs#documentation)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Getting started documentation](https://www.knative.dev/docs/#getting-started)
```

</details>

### Client v0.17

CLI (Command Line Interface) continues the journey to full Eventing support and adds some additional goodies for this release.

**Meta**

The compile dependencies have been updated to Knative Serving 0.17.0 and Knative Eventing 0.17.0.

**Eventing support**

This release adds full support for managing Channel resources [#967](https://github.com/knative/client/pull/967). It allows you to specify the channel type during creation and also to add some mappings of GVK coordinates to symbolic names in your configuration.

**Plugin Inline Support**

- [#902](https://github.com/knative/client/pull/902) It is possible now to create custom variations of kn that can inline golang based plugins into a single binary. See the [plugin README](https://github.com/knative/client/tree/master/docs/plugins#plugin-inlining) for a brief explanation about the mechanics. More documentation and examples pending.
- It is important to note, that kn as released from the [client repository](https://github.com/knative/client) will not inline any plugins. It just provides the hooks for enabling plugin inlining.

<details><summary>New Features</summary>

> - [#980](https://github.com/knative/client/pull/980) kn source list use now an own list type for heterogeneous lists 

Reviewer 3: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
- [#980](https://github.com/knative/client/pull/980) kn source list use now an own list type for heterogeneous lists
```

- [#951](https://github.com/knative/client/pull/951) NAMESPACE header column has been added to kn source list -A

> - [#937](https://github.com/knative/client/pull/937) Add support to combine kn service create --filename with other options 

Reviewer 3: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
- [#937](https://github.com/knative/client/pull/937) Add support to combine kn service create --filename with other options
```

</details>

<details><summary>Bug Fixes</summary>

> - [#975](https://github.com/knative/client/pull/975) Client side volume name generation has been fixed 

Reviewer 3: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
- [#975](https://github.com/knative/client/pull/975) Client side volume name generation has been fixed
```
